I've spent much of Xmas thinking about the future and my place in it. It's led me to ponder on ways of life and identity, what some might say is the core of a person's place in the world.

Fly your freak flag high

I'm a child of the seventies and eighties and I've been glad that my youth was spent during that period, a very fertile time for culture and especially music. But thinking more about it I really do believe the greatest time of the past 100 years was the sixties and the huge cultural revolution of the hippies. The legacy of that time is truly awesome, affecting everything from politics to style, music, technology, even food. I know many of the very early punks were actually late developing true hippies (not the denim horror show seventies fashion hippie that became common after '74), but more like the revolutionary yippies of the early sixties - think Gerry Rubin or Abbie Hoffman. I know now that most of what happened in the seventies and early eighties only happened because of the ground laid in the sixties. Even though early punks shouted loudly 'never trust a hippie', more often than not they actually were hippies, the revolutionary kind.

I think about my role as an adult in life, of job, family and my own legacy after I'm gone, and it's become really important that I remain true to myself and rid myself of hypocrisy and half truths that often thrive in corporate worlds or families that exist on Keeping Up with The Jones's. Life is short and I cannot waste it being someone I'm not, or worse, someone I loathe.

Is this a mid-life crisis? I don't think so. I've never been a person to spend too much time on conventional life, but it's been forced on me in recent years. I feel the time has now come to push back against the forces of career planning and job progression. The time has come to fly my freak flag again. Enough people exist to plod away at their careers, pay their mortgages and take out personal loans for vast TVs or giant cars they do not need. Enough people exist as wage slaves and consumer addicts. We need more people who aren't like that, who live differently, look different, think differently. I need to rejoin my band of brothers and sisters on the fringe.


